---
title: Bloody March Turn 4
date: 2014-09-01 11:05 PDT
tags: central-america, bloody-march
---

Turn 3 was so much easier (and more fun) than any of the previous turns
in this game or the first that it's not even 3 days and I'm motivated to
get through another turn. And maybe even finish up the Bloody March
scenario through Turn 5. We'll see.

## Turn 4

Continuing from [Bloody March Turn
3](/2014/08/29/bloody-march-turn-3.html), we find that the Honduran CES
has been sent packing, and the FDN forces are all huddled up in
entrenched positions, half at Las Vegas, the remaining with the CIA
helicopters at Silca.

The FSLN has decided this is *most* unsatisfactory, and will attempt to
dislodge the CIA forces at Silca.

This will take more than one turn as 50-02 moves slowly north.


### FSLN phases


* Supply: In supply.
* Regular Ground Unit Movement:
  * 50-02: from 1909 to 1908
  * Lopz: from 2208 to 2108

* Insurgency Movement:
  * PVP, Estr from 2208 to 2108
  * MRH from 2208 to 2007
  * Pom, Uman from 1909 to 2007

  What FSLN is trying to do here is manage a 1:1 attack which is going
  to almost certainly cost an insurgency unit, but has a small (1/6) of
  reducing the defenders by one unit.

* First Insurgency Disbandment: None.

* Ground Combat: Actually, this is the game, as the defender is in a
mountain jungle hex, with a ground combat helicopter of AF with column
shift 1L, and insurgents in the defense. The net result is -2 DRM which
will be defender retreat at best. There is no possibility of defender
step reduction.

Since I could easily move all FSLN units pretty much out of easy reach of
FDN, such that if the FDN went chasing one group of commies, the other
would swoop in and take the position at Silca.

Final score: FDN 4, FSLN 1, Marginal Victory for FDN.

{:.center}
![Final configuration at end of FSLN phase, Bloody March Turn
4](/images/bloody_march_turn_4.jpg).

This is where I called the game. It might have been mildly interesting
to see whether the FDN could have achieved better than Marginal Victory,
but it's Labor Day, and I have stuff to do which is more interesting.

## After Action Report

This was a long adventure for such a short game.

As it turns out, the historical result was a Decisive Victory for the
FDN forces.

Had this game played out completely, that could have still been a
possibility. On the other hand, the FSLN forces were in pretty good
position to repulse attacks, and some bad die rolling could also reduce
it to a Stalemate.

### Some thoughts on the game

This first full play through has been quite a challenge. This is definitely
the most complex game I've played. In terms of absolute complexity, my
hunch is that it's near the top of a middle tier complexity, perhaps a
6, or the bottom of top tier of complexity, maybe 7, out of 9. Most of
the complexity is associated with the following:

* Long phase sequence on each turn, 16 phases for the standard game, 19
for the intervention game.

* Large variety of combat types, including ground to ground with armor
and infantry, air to ground, ground to air, close air support, air to
air, probably more with the intervention game and naval and marine
forces coming into play.

* Combat and movement factors are very small compared with other games.
  For example, with a movement factor of 3, in the forest, crossing a
  river hex requires the entire MF of 2 for forest hex entry plus one for
  crossing a river. Note that this applies to regular units. Insurgent
  units do not pay movement penalties.

  This has a side effect (or maybe a main effect) of making roads and
  trails extremely valuable to control.

* The insurgency rules add an unusual dimension to the game, almost like
having a second game running underneath the main game. The movement,
combat advantages and ephemeral nature of the insurgent forces requires
a fair bit of thought for effectively employing these forces.

While the above adds a fair bit of complexity, it turns out the that
record tracks manage what could have been a bookkeeping blowout. Other
than perhaps figuring odds, there is no need (so far) in the standard
game to break out the Mark I lead pencil. That in itself feels like
quite an acheivement to me.

The rule book is one of the best I've seen. While it's thick-ish (~60
pages for the standard game, 40 more for the intervention game), the
rules are remarkably clear. So much so that the few rules which are
vague or ambiguous really stand out. When the ambiguity is easily
noticed, it's much easier to infer intent, or at least provide a
reasonable house rule in lieue of a ruling.


### No dispersal

One of the odd things about the game is that it feels smaller scale than
it is. That is, it feels company sized, but it's not, it's brigade and
regiment sized. At a certain scale, step losses probably make more sense
than dispersals, especially with the reorganization mechanism for
rebuilding units.


### Closing observations

Some people are bothered that one of the basic premises of the game is
Sandinistas acting as Soviet proxies.

I can definitely understand why this is bothersome to many people, and
to some extent, I find it a small bit bothersome myself.

However, this conflict with all its associated Iran-Contra drama made
headlines for the better part of at least a couple of years. Its one of
only a couple of topics I recall listening to on NPR pretty much daily.
(Another being the savings and loan scandal. I was framing houses in
Austin at the time.)

It didn't seem to be clear to NPR what, exactly, was going on down
there.

So hindsight, as they say, is 20-20.

Fast forward to now, playing what was a state-of-the-art game when it
was published, I don't have any problem suspending disbelief.

In fact, if CA is "fantasy," it's no more or no less fantasy than
Victory Games popular Fleet series, which clearly (and thankfully!)
models hypothetical conflicts.


Here's my impression after spending a bit of time with the game:

* The rules are very clear to me, and contain a *lot* of worked
examples. Bear in mind I do network application development for day job,
so rules with this sort of clarity and precision are a welcome change
from what I deal with day-to-day at work (where quality is correlated to
WTFs/minute).

* Handling insurgent activation and deactivation is critically
important, and allows hit and run technique. *Poof* call up a unit or
three of insurgents, do some hit and run (insurgents immune to ezocs),
and *poof* stand them down for future reactivation. Opponent can't
eliminate what's not on the board. CA models this much more explicitly
than the COIN games.

* All the accounting information is on the *single* map, really
important for me as my table is about 2' x 3' Having record tracks
off-map is a major pain.

* Mark Herman helped develop it. =)


CA isn't for everyone, but I like it, and as noted above, would be
delighted to acquire a spare copy for parts.



