# Balance in PanzerBlitz Situations

What makes for a balanced game?

That's a good question, and most players would probably agree on
something like this:

*A "balanced" game is one where each player has a equal chance of
winning based on skill.*

This works in games where chance is involved because "playing the odds"
is also a matter of skill, and to the extent of chance's influence,
skill will expose the better player over a number of games.

In PanzerBlitz, each side is given an order of battle and victory
conditions, and a limited number of turns to achieve victory.

So how is an equal chance of winning determined?

It stands to reason that changing either the order of battle or the
victory conditions will change the balance of the situation. In some
cases, increasing or decreasing the number of turns may also affect the
victory conditions.

In some situations, it feels like initial setup or very early game play
has an enormous influence on the outcome, such that if the opposing
player can exploit a weakness early on, the game may tip in that
player's favor.

In other words, some scenarios appear highly imbalanced, favoring one
side or another within the number of turns given in the situation. But
this imbalance may be a result of superior early positioning of that
side. Should the "stronger" side deploy poorly, the game might well swing
radically to the "weaker" side's favor.

## Sitation #1

Favors Germans

### Rebalancing

Add tanks to Russians, remove mines/blocks from Germans, take away one
or both 88 mm from German, replace with 76 mm. Remove one fortification
from German, forcing a command post in the clear. Increase the turn
length to 15 to allow Russians to optimize positioning.

## Situation #2

Favors Russians

### Rebalancing

Add infantry or armor to German's forces. Use optional indirect fire
rules with an added H class weapon for Germans. Require Russians to
advance further for each victory condition, say 9 or 10 hexes for
marginal victory. Remove infantry from Russian forces. Shorten the turn
limit, forcing the Russians to make riskier moves. Rewrite victory
conditions as point-based, accounting for units destroyed, Russian units
in position, and units disabled on last turn.

## Situation #3

Favors Russians

### Rebalancing

## Playing to a draw

The original rules do not discuss fighting to a draw, but adding a
"draw" outcome might help balance situations. With tiered victory
conditions, when both sides achieve the same victory condition, that's a
draw.
