---
layout: pb
---


# PanzerBush

Mention "PanzerBlitz" in a room full of experienced wargamers, you're
likely to hear a "panzerbush" snorted about.

This is a result of the game's most controversial rule: unit forest or
town cover must be spotted before they can be fired upon. This results
in a game of movement, where units attempt to maintain cover as much as
possible to avoid fire.

Seems ridiculous. After all, the counters are right there on the map,
anyone can them.

But let's consider the notion that *the map is not the territory*.

And examine the following photograph of a Panzer IV variant.

{:.center}
![Panzer IV
variant](/images/Bundesarchiv_Bild_101I-124-0211-18,_Im_Westen,_Panzer_IV.jpg)

The tank is in the clear.

Off in the distance, we see a stand of trees.

Let's say the trees are order 20 meters in height. Seems reasonable.

Further, we can guess that the trees are probably between 250-500 meters
away, that is, 1 to 2 hexes in PanzerBlitz map scale.

So, how many tanks in those trees?

Hard to say from 2 hexes away.

And taking fire from units in covered position doesn't help much more
than "they're in the trees!"

Consider this:

>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M4_Sherman In Summer 1944, after breaking
>out of the bocage and moving into open country, U.S. tank units who
>were engaged at range from German defensive positions sometimes took
>50% casualties before spotting where the fire was coming from.[40 Tank
>Tactics from Normandy to Lorraine]

There is no doubt "panzerbush" can be infuriating during game play.

However, it might well be one of the more accurate aspect of the game
with respect to simulation.

---

## A matter of perception


Covered hexes in PanzerBlitz are any hex with a spot of green forest or
a speckle of grey town. Probably for aesthetic reasons, the artwork
indicating forest or town rarely covers the entire hex.

One might suspect the controversy over panzerbush might be related to
the apparently clear hex with a border of forest being classified as a
fully covered forest hex. Perhaps if the "forest" covered the entire
hex, players wouldn't even think to remark on the visual contradiction.
After all, anyone can see the hex is covered in woods, so of course
units won't be visible.

Who can say?

As a parting shot, consider hitting a moving target at 1000
meters.
