---
layout: pb
---

S3G1 - PanzerBlitz

Jan 12, 2014

Solo setup indicates Russian units should stay mounted until it's clear
where the Germans are going totry and penetrate.

Played Russians with Al Suarez as Germans.

Turns out to be pretty tough for the Russians to keep the line covered,
but as difficult for the Germans to force a penetration.


## AAR

### Blunders

* Infantry cannot engage halftracks at range, they must close assault.
  In this game I picked off a few halftracks with infantry parked in
Grabyosh.

# Game 2 - solo

When I first set up Scenario 3, I was unable to determine a way to
randomize the German offensive plan. In previous scenario plays,
randomly choosing the board to enter on worked well. In this scenario,
the three boards form a natural division, and I can randomize the
Germans choice of attacks by choosing that the 3 hex lane must be
cleared on either Board 1, Board 2, or Board 3.

This allows the Russians to emplace without knowing where the Germans
are coming in, much like the Germans emplace in Scenario 1.

The key is that the Russians must set up first.

Randomly choosing for the Germans might also be a way to handicap.


## Turn 1

Germans roll a 3, will attempt to clear 3 hexes, 1 of which is on Board
3.

The Russians have found out that parking a rifle unit in Adski pretty
much takes it off the map for several turns, unless the Germans come
straight up board 1.

## Turn 2

Lots of positioning as usual.

## Turn 3

The Germans missed a shot at 3:1 on a truck in the clear. That will be
costly as that truck is going to tote a rifle company back. Also, the
halftracks which unloaded infantry in a gully backed off way too far,
and rendering them two turns from combat effectiveness instead of one
turn.

The Russians took a couple of no effect potshots at open units, continue
to position.

## Turn 4

We're getting close to a slugfest. The Scenario 3 card states that this
is a 1941 battle, hence the tanks should be considered PzKw III instead
of PzKw  IV. From the counter sheets provided by ImStrat, let's call
them PzKw III G, with factors 8-3-6-8, significantly less powerful than
the IV.

A good handicap for this scenario would give the German III G, factors
6-2-6-8.

The Germans took a few shits and tried a close assault, total whiff. In
fact, neither side has yet rolled any damage to the other. The die hates
both equally.

The Russians can't get a hit either.

## Turn 5

Turns out one of the Russian rifle companies bailed out the gully into
clear terrain in hopes that it would draw the armor out into clear as
well. No such luck, the panzers can finish the overruns in protected
locations.

German got a nice overrun, as just mentioned. Infantry is moving into
spotting positions within a couple of turns. Everything is
well-positioned to savage Gabyosh.

Russians find a German rifle platoon in the clear! This was not supposed
to be a problem, as the Germans anticipated fire only from Grabyosh. But
it turns out they're exposed to the 76 mm in Golod. And, Oh noes! the 87
mm mortar on Hill 129, with its paltry 3 AF, tips the odds from 2:1 to
3:1. Combined arms rules! Actually, it brought it up to 4:1 because I
found another guards unit which could fire.


## Turn 6

German 50 mm battery catches a couple of trucks in a gully. The battery
is parked on the north end of Hill 107. There is a 4:1 sure kill on 1
truck, or a 2:1 dispersal for anything less than 6 on both together.

Germans got super lucky: 3 halftracks overran a Russian rifle company,
6:16  which is 3:8 which is 1:3 rounded, bump to 1:2 for overrun, rolled
a 1 which is an X. Booyah.

Russian SMG company dispersed a stack of panzers, get some breathing
room for Grabyosh now. Units are starting to flow in for reinforcement.
One of the trucks was able drop a rifle company right behind some
panzers, will be able to close assault next turn if the panzers decide
to stay try for Grabyosh.

## Turn 7

Germans not so lucky on overrun at 1:1, rolled a 6. Bummer, big time.

Russians rolling stupid good dice, 4 panzers dispersed!

## Turn 8

Make or break for the Germans. They need to take Grabyosh in next 2
turns, and most of their firepower is dispersed right now. Grabyosh
attack failed, needed to roll a 2 because town defense adds 1 to die
roll.

Russians are just spanking the Germans. There must be something I'm
missing about towns, because they are just really hard to crack.

## Turn 9

Germans move pnzers to slope, finally. Duh. Still going to lose one in
the flats

Russians finally whiffed one, beside taking out another panzer.

## Turn 10

Germans have not won, but do have a 2:1 on Grabyosh, finally.  Let's see
what they roll: 5, which is a 6 because of town, which is a dispersal.
No point in the infantry continuing with a close assault at 1:4.

Problem with slope of Hill 107 is that it's exposed to fire from the
other 76 mm in Grabyosh.

Russian 76 mms disperse two panzers at 1:1 on the hill. Russians have
unbroken line of hexes covered, Russian win.


## AAR

The Germans really need to take out the Russian's trucks in this
scenario. Make it hard for Ivan to reinforce.

Also, Germans need to rethink trying to take out towns which have so
much infantry support. A close assault to pin down armor runs the clock
down fast.


### Blunders

* I've been charging truck 4 movement points to leave a gully, and it
  should 5.

* Not using Russian guard unit to help destroy 50 mm guns on the north
  side of Hill 107. The guard unit is stacked with a 76 mm in Grabyosh.

* The 76 mm in Grabyosh should have gone after panzers on a previous
  turn. The defense factor is so high, Germans can't stay close enough
to it to matter.

* Huge blunder: the panzers need to attack from the hill slope to both
  stay out of range and half the attack factor from the battery in the
town.

