---
layout: pb
---

# Scenario #1

May 4, 2013


S1G1 - Starship Troopers

SST is a very curious game base on the book of the same name by Robert
A. Heinlein.

First impressions: the game is antiquated in appearance. The graphics
are beyond laughable, almost embarrassing, even compared to standards of
the day. The counters are 1/2", really small, and the lettering even
smaller. For example, the most import information on the Terran counters
is, arguably, the unit designator. Each Terran "marauder" counter
represents an individual marine, but it's really difficult to read which
marine is which from the counter, The board is boring. My copy suffers
from nearly misprinted counter art, and one of the map boards is out of
alignment.

Then why the interest?

Let's count the reasons:

1. The game is based on fictional history, an account of a war which
   never happened, and in this universe, never will.

2. SST is loaded with innovative mechanics to simulate highly asymmetric
   forces and fog of war.

3. Vast numbers were printed, so the game is readily available and
   inexpensive in the aftermarket.

4. Probably more.


## Setting up

Having absolutely no idea what I was doing, I just plopped down all the
pieces for the Skinnies forces clustered around the city and spaceport,
with the Skinnie combat forces deployed out front.  I did not use the
strong points at all.

## Turn 1

Terrans roared in from the bottom of the board.

Skinnies moved to reposition in front of Terrans.

## Turn 2

Marines, straight up the middle.

Skinnies, sweeping east to intercept marines.

## Turns 3, 4, 5

I don't recall the exact sequence of events here, so combining
description of these turns.

Marines, scout starts occupying facilities, picked the water facility by
luck.

Skinnies not sure what to do, Marines starting to move through the
defensive line.

Marines start hopping on to facilities, Skinnies start to engage.

Over the course of these turns, the marines eliminate a defender and
disrupt two others. In return, the defenders score a HVY on one of the
marines.

## Turn 6

By this time, I was losing track of whose turnwas whose, the Terrans
were stomping the defense decisively, and there did not seem to be any
point in continuing. So I called the game.


## AAR

I called the game around the half way point when it became clear I had
absolutely no idea how to play the Skinnies defense. In fact, it seemed
hopelessly out of balance to me, in favor of the Terrans.

Then I went on to BGG to look up some stratgey, and sure enough, I was
definitely doing it wrong.

## Blunders

Among many, one in particular: Critical Facilities have to be occupied
for a full turn to be claimed by Marines. Since the defensive forces
were so badly deployed, this blunder did not change the outcome.


