---
title: Solo learning
date: 2014-11-02 20:43 PST
tags:
---

Since you asked...

I just don't worry about it, not even a little bit.

This may be a result of programming web applications for a living, where
almost every day finds an opportunity to practice humility. Also known
as having one's face shoved into a steaming pile of ignorance.

As a result, I don't expect to get the rules right. In fact, I expect to
get them wrong, if not laughably wrong.

For example, I just wrapped up my first game of StarSoldier (solo), a
vintage game from the Redmond Simonsen stable, for which scenarios
should be fairly well-balanced. I managed to score 70 to 20, where a
decisive win is 26+. Obviously, I did something really, really wrong.
Most likely, several things, as I can think of a couple right off the
top of my head.

This is fine, not a problem at all.

There is this notion in software that one should work as hard as
possible on the first version of a code, because you're going to throw
it away and write it over. That seems unintuitive, but it's good
practice. Without putting in the heavy lifting on the first version, the
important lessons don't get learned.

That solo game of StarForce (above) occupied probably 8 hours of time
spread over 3 sessions while laid out on the table for two weeks. It
went 2 full turns, with Turn 3 being basically a no-op with the losing
force exiting the board. This is that "version 1," a throwaway game
filled with BS&T, which will make all succeeding games that much the
easier.

Just as I take notes at work when developing software, I take *copious*
notes while playing initial games to learn rules. At work, the notes go
into a paper notebook which legally belongs to my employer. For games, I
usually end up publishing notes on Github, more or less in blog form. I
find that writing every move out helps me learn. And when I'm playing
out of the house, I can sneak a look at my notes using my iphone. Handy!

One nice side effect of sweating the rules solo is that I rarely suffer
from AP when playing an opponent. I've already done the analysis, so
there is no paralysis.

YMMV of course, but try writing out at least a couple of turns in
excruciating detail. Maybe not every turn, maybe not the first turn, but
at least for a of couple of the early turns, write it all out. It's a
lot of work, but I find it really helpful and so might you.
