---
layout: pb
---

# Situation #8 Game 2

After the first two debacles attempting this scenario, I've set up
identically to the solo game 1 to take another stab at cracking this
puzzle. This time, I'm going to attempt to get around the south end of
the map, with some decoy elements up at the north and in the center area
to try to take some of the heat off the southern push.

We'll see how it goes.

## Set up

As noted above, the Russian set up identically to the first solo game.
The Germans set up as far forward as possibly while maintaining cover.

## Turn 1

And the Germans are off to the races, taking a line along the southern
edge of the map. While this feels a bit "gamey," the scenario, and the
boards, don't provide much of anything else to do. This time, the heavy
guns are coming forward, as it's too hard to get the CP into position.
If I can take out 6 Russian infantry, that will be worth it.

The single direct fire on a Rifle company whiffed, but the close assault
did the trick with a roll of 1 at 2:1 odds. Engineers are awesome that
way.

The Russians don't have a lot of targets at the moment. The ATG took a
shot at the H stack threating the lane of death, but missed. One of the
Russian close assaults failed, the other dispersed a stack of 3 Panthers
with a luck roll of 1. The SU 85s decided to get in on any future action
on the south side, and most of the infantry started moving south as well.

Here's the end of Turn 1:

{:.center}
![End of Turn 1](/images/panzerblitz/s8_g2_t1.jpg)

The Germans, with a little bit of dice rolling luck, may be able to not
lose too terribly badly.

## Turn 2

The Germans now have to figure out exactly where they want to use the
huge guns. This will really matter in the early game. Unless 2 or 3
infantry companies can be knocked out fast, it won't go well for the
Germans. The fire phase got Russian Recon and Rifle companies
elimated, missed on the shot to Hill 126, dispersed a Guards unit.
After fire, Germans are mounting up and moving south. There is just no
way through the north end of the map, what with the swamp and green bars
blocking so much terrain.

Russians apparently only have 1 direct fire target, a Russian rifle
company firing on a German platoon. That's a miss at 1:2 odds roll 5.
That probably would have been better with a close assault, since the Su
85 can move to the top of Hill 126 and be in cover. This is going to
suck for the Germans, really slow them down, and will cost them units as
being able to spot for that hex is 4/6 exposed. Nasty.

Here's the end of Turn 2:

{:.center}
![End of Turn 2](/images/panzerblitz/s8_g2_t2.jpg)

It's dark outside now, hence the mellower yellow of the game photo.

## Turn 3

The Germans are going to have a really hard time taking out the Russian
145 and 146 Rifle companies, being that they are stacked on a hilltop in
a forest hex (1B6). A better idea for the Germans might be to chew the
Russian up as they advance to the south. For example, the Wespe and some
mortars took out a Guards unit foolishly left in the clear. As the
Russian player, I didn't think the Germans would have enough firepower
to touch it, in the clear or not. Roll 4 eliminates another guards
units, and a roll 2 disperses a third. This third one was a bit dicey,
as it could have spotted for the Su 85s sitting in hex 1C6. In that
case, I might have sacrificed the SG III-75s to threaten the Su 85s.
Thankfully won't need to. That's it for fire phase.

German movement: everything moves south.

Russian fire phase: nyet. There is nothing the Russians can spot. The
Germans are all hunkered down. There is only movement, and this turn,
that's leg movement only. The SU 85s can stay put for now. They might
move to Zabvenia a little later.

{:.center}
![End of Turn 3](/images/panzerblitz/s8_g2_t3.jpg)

As can be seen in the photo, it's daylight out again.

Onward, through the fog.

## Turn 4

I've had this scenario set up for at least two weeks (possibly even four
weeks, can't really recall), with the intention of playing through it
one phasing player's turn at a time. That's not how it is working out.
Over the last 24 hours, I've played 2.5 turns (5 phases). There is an
off-chance I'll knock it out through the afternoon and evening today
(December 7, 2014). We'll see. In the meantime, it is Turn 4, and the
Germans have to decide what to fire on.

The Germans are rolling lucky, not getting 6's on d6 rolls at 4:1 in
forest. It seems like so many games of PanzerBlitz turn out to collapse
on the German inability to roll anything *but* 6's at 4:1 against
defender in forest. This is just broken, it should have a 'DD' or at
least a 'D' result for a 6 + 1 roll at 4:1. The game would play better.

## AAR

This was an odd game as I moved the heavy artillery all the way to the
front, and used it in direct fire mode to blast away at Russian infantry
units. This is not how heavy artillery should be used, in real life or
in the game. It's one of those zooey things about PanzerBlitz. At least
up until Turn 3, the tactic worked pretty well.

It might be interesting to try the same technique on the north end of
the board. Getting through the gullies would be hard, but it might work.
