---
layout: pb
---

# Situation 4, Game 2

March 23, 2014

I was scheduled to play a modified Situation #3 f2f, but my opponent had
something come up. Since the match was to be played at a local game
store, it's a perfect time to set up the end-to-end boards for Situation
#4.

Russians: 51 units
Germans: 17 units

## Turn 1

Russians enter in road march order, leading with the SMG units. These
are intended to lay into Golod as fast as possible to deny the Germans a
long emplacement of, say, the 88 mm.

German bring up the Wespe and Hummel into Golod. This might not have
been a very good idea, but the first game I played neither of these got
more than a shot or two each. Then again, their presence way off board
was probably a good deterrent against Russian moving through Board 3
with impunity.


## Turn 2

Russians move a huge load of firepower on to Golod in an attempt to pry
the German off of Board 2 as early as possible. SMG units are spotting.
A couple of these  could be taken out by the Hummel and the Wespe, but
whichever stays to fight is lost, for sure.

The Germans have to move out, Golod is lost. ATG on Hill 129 missed its
T-34/85, will be taken out next turn.

## Turn 3

Russians picked off a couple of ATGs, pushed the Germans pretty much out
of Golod.

Germans pulling back.

## Turn 4

Russians continue to press. Germans only have two rifle platoons on
Board 2.

Germans managed to get the 88 mm out of Golod. Moving the SPA to Board
1, Hills 126 and 104. Everything, reposition to set up fields of fire on
Board 3.


## Turn 5

Russian transports rifle companies into Grabyosh, everything else up to
Grabyosh.

Germans in a lot of trouble, about to lose the 88 mm, pulling way, way
back on to Board 3. The 88 mm did take out a T-34, and the lonely rifle
company on Hill 129 destroyed a truck transporting a recon unit which
the Russians left within a hex, blunder.

## Turn 6

Russians rolled 6 on 4:1 against 88 mm in forest, which will cost them
another AFV. Otherwise, nothing left to do other than mass up to get on
Board 3.

Germans whiffed two fires, the Hummel and the 88 mm did not get kills.
At least the 88 gets another shot out.


## Turn 7

Russians are all on Board 3, just crushing the Germans.

But the Germans are now getting some kills: the 88 took out a second
AFV, and the Wespe waxed an SMG unit. Everything else needs to bug out.
This is almost a total rout.

When the Germans get in this situation, they might consider flanking.
The way this is playing out, the Russians are really soft in the rear.


## Turn 8

Russians just consolidating positions now.

Germans hiding...

## Turn 9

Russians now totally throwing down to get into victory conditions with 5
or more German units destroyed.

Germans now damaging the Russians, but it's too late, they're too far
into Board 3.


## Turn 10

Russians need to take 2 for marginal victory, got 3, then got everything
under cover.

Germans have nothing to fire at, the Russians are all covered. Too bad
didn't get the SPA on Hill 126, then would be able to fire down into
gullies.

## AAR

Final: Russians took 6 German units, got 38 units on Board 3, marginal
victory to Russians.

Big question: how are the two infantry platoons best used in this
scenario? My next attempt will play them together so that they will be
able to close assault. AF 3 just doesn't have enough strength. They can,
however, threaten trucks and wagons, which really stings when these
units are carrying infantry.


### Blunders

The Germans should have risked a halftrack to overrun a truck carrying
SMG unit on Turn 1. This halftrack end the overrun in cover, and since
the Germans have two extra trucks, no transport would have been lost.

Germans needed to get SPA safe and positioned way earlier than Turn 5,
specifically getting them in position on Hill 129.

### Balance

One way to tighten it up for the Russians is to make it an 8 instead of
10 turn scenario.


