---
layout: pb
---

# Situation #6 (game 2): German mobile defense west of Dnieper Bend

May 31, 2014

At Endgame, had a tentative meetup with Al S. but I haven't heard from
him. Hence, setting up Situation #6 for a second solo play.

In the first Situation #6 game, the Germans forgot to bring their
halftracks. This game, the Germans have the correct OOB.

House rule: halftrack elimination does not produce a wreck counter. As
will be noted in the After Action, this is actually a blunder with
respect to the rules, which clearly state that destroyed halftracks
result in a wreck counter placed at the site of destruction.

## Turn 1

The first game of Situation #6 I did not understand why it might be
benficial for the Germans to set up second, but move first. I get it
now.

Germans first move is to get some infantry over to the pass between
hills 104  & 126 to deny the Russians theroad movement through the pass.

Russians can't do much more than road march into the teeth of the much
smaller German force, which is hoding some tactically valuable
positions.

## Turn 2

Germans consolidating positions around the pass.

Russians made a mistake by putting all the truck-mounted SMG units at
the rear. A few of these should be up at the front to spot, close
assault, and soak up fire without producing wrecks.

## Turn 3

Germans took out a field gun which the Russians probably didn't need to
sacrifice. It was placed to put some pressure om the Jgpz IV.

Russians are going to have to really put some pressure on now, because
they are bottleneck on Board 1 in a big way. Attempting to encircle the
Germans.

## Turn 4

Germans mounting up to pull back.

Russians encircled units on pass.

## Turn 5

Germans in major retreat!

Al S. showed up about right here, so I played everything out solo,
narrating my reasoning to Al as I went.

## Turn 6 - Turn 10





Looks pretty close, will have to count pieces to see if the Germans have
enough to squeak out a marginal victory and claim a draw.


## AAR

Final result: Russians take 7 German units, Germans take 15 Russian
units, marginal victory for Germans. Russian move 11 units on to Board
3, marginal Russian victory. Hence, a draw.

### Blunders

Not using halftracks as sacrificial pieces to slow Russian advance. I've
playing that halftrack elimination does not place a wreck, which is
counter to the rules. Using halftracks as wrecks allows saving the
"real" AFVs for shooting.

Germans still don't know how to employ the long range artillery. The
Wespe and Hummel got off one shot each.


