---
layout: pb
---


# Situation #3 - Game 2

January 26, 2014

Revisiting Situation #3 for the third time, second time solo.

Russians set up first, and this time, more units are loaded on trucks
and wagons, "in reserve" and ready to move where needed.

## Turn 1

Germans roll a 1 (randomizing for solitaire game) on the dice, hence,
must force an exit through Board 1.


Russians start to move East. Trucks and wagons rolling. Hopefully, the
Germans don't have enough movement to feint.

## Turn 2

Germans are going for fast engagement with Panzers. Mortars and
Howitzers are set up for covering fire. Infantry is set to engage on the
road lading up to the pass between Hills 104 and 126.

Russians are massing infantry forces at the footof 104.

## Turn 3

Germans claimed a Russian truck on the fire round, then split forces to
escape the infantry massing up and go after some field guns.

Russians really boxing in the Germans.

## Turn 4

Germans got a couple of dispersals, remembered to add 1 to die roll when
defender in forest, which cost a kill.

Russians, they might be in trouble! The Germans are pressing very hard
in the Adski sector.

## Turn 5

Germans finally, for the first time in several games it feels like, are
getting some slack: good die rolls! This turn sees Russian 82 mm mortar
and another truck destroyed, and a 76. 2 mm ATG dispersed. Even better,
one of the PzKw III Gs caught a stack of Russian transport in the clear
and overran. This cost the Russians an ATG and a rifle company.

Russians really whiffing on the dice. With the panzers loose at the
north end of the board, transport just got really dicey.

## Turn 6

Germans are in position, the next two turns will decide it. The Russians
could get very lucky on clse assaults and keep the Germans dispersed
till the clock runs out.

Russians couldn't do a whole lot here, try to mass infantry to not get
taken out completely. They did get a German truck.

## Turn 7

Germans In pretty good shape, with the Russians not being able to roll
enough kills or dispersals to prevent the Germans from either moving or
firing.

Russians have a few bad options, and one good fire target of a PzKw III
G down in a gully which is going after the remaining ATG gun which is a
threat, except, whoops, that unit is dispersed! But, the Germans
blundered and thought they were driving Panzer IVs, and got their IIIs
into bad positions... And dispersed!


## Turn 8

Germans mostly positioning, took out another wagon, still can't manage
to take out the ATG gun.

Russian ATG gets another truck, disperses tracks on the slope.

Looking like a draw, as the Germans just don't have enough fire power to
reduce the infantry.

## Turn 9

Germans finally took out the ATG, everything positioned for one massive
fire round.

Russians dispersed a couple of big stacks, really helped because this
the Germans last turn.


## Turn 10

Germans fail to dislodge rifle company in Adski, rolling a 5 at 3:1.

Russians again rolled well and dispersed.


## AAR

Draw, possibly favoring the Germans as the Germans would probably get a
win given 2-3 more turns, possibly even a single turn more. The Russian
infantry is just too strong.


Lightweight artillery, H and M weapones with AF 2 or 3 is super useful
for destroying transport, especially if it's loaded transport! The trick
is catching it in the clear.

### Blunders

Germans stacked two ATGs in the same hex, making it impossible to get
the transport in to pick it both up the same turn.

Russians lost all their trucks by Turn #5.

Germans put their ATG guns at extreme risk, by allowing Russian SMG unit
to get too close. If the Germans load, the gun is lost on a CAT.

Artillery in forest hexes also needs to be stacked with infantry, if
there is no chance for that unit to move. This would have saved at least
two Russian field guns.

Germans forgetting to run selective fire on Russian infantry, could have
taken out a unit or two, possibly.

I think I have not been halving AF for attackers firing on inputs on
slopes when the attacker is on a hilltop or otherslope. I think this
wrong.

### Handicapping and rebalancing

Allow reinforcements on successive turns for the Germans, both armor and
infantry.

Assuming the Situation can be rebalanced appropriately, require wider
hexes from the east and west boundaries, east boundary at Adski in
particular. This limits artificial boundary effect.

Disallow the swamp on board 1 to count for cleared hexes. Armor can't
move through it.

Reduce the Russian unit count by two or three infantry units, say three
rifle, or remove both guards, two SMG, or remove a guard and an SMG.

