---
layout: pb
---

# Situation #8 Russian Organized Defense: German Relief on the Korsun Pocket

This is solitaire game 1 for Situation #8. I've played it once before
with an experienced wargamer who hadn't played PanzerBlitz in decades,
and his Russians smoked my Germans pretty bad.

Setting up for this game, now that I have the time, it's making me
wonder how he was able to get all those heavy mortar shots off, given
the 4 hex spotting for Russian command post, for the 120 mm mortars
only. I seem to recall him spotting out much longer ranges, and spotting
for the heavy howitzer as well. This would make a huge difference in
game play, and would certainly go a long way towards explaining why the
Germans never even got halfway across board one in 8 turns, much less
off Board 3 in 10 turns.

Hopefully, in this solo game, I'll be able to figure out what went wrong
in that game.

## Setting up

The Russians set up first on Board 1. The strategy is to make it hard
for the Germans to even get on the board using mines and blocks, then
once they're on the board, hammer them with the artillery concealed on
hill tops, while moving the guards and rifle units along the road to
assume blocking positions if and when the Germans break through.

The Germans have to pick what they think will be the softest point of
the Russian defensive line, and hammer on it very hard.

### Scenario specific rules for indirect fire

The situation description states that Russian "CP's may only spot for
120mm mortar (within 4 hexes.)" For this game, the assumption will be
that the CP needs to be within 4 hexes of the mortar it calls fire for,
but otherwise may call for fire on anything spotted in the CP's line of
sight. CPs may call for fire more than once each turn. For example, if
there are three mortars and two CPs, one of the CPs may call for fire
for two mortars.

This is a hole in the rules, and should probably be addressed by either 1.
limiting call for fire onto a single target per (6 minute) turn, or 2.
adding a clause to indirect fire rules increasing the amount of drift
on each target when a CP is calling fire on more than one target.

German indirect fire will be similar.

## Turn 1

## Turn 2

## Turn 3

## Turn 4

## Turn 5

## Turn 6

## Turn 7

## Turn 8

## Turn 9

## Turn 10


## AAR


### Blunders

### Mine and block placement


### Handicapping
