---
title: Bloody March, first turn
date: 2014-06-21 14:23 PDT
tags: central-america
---

*Update June 28, 2014: play continues with a serious attempt at getting
through all five turns with the full standard rule set.*

This afternoon's intent is to walk through the first turn of the first
scenario "Bloody March" of Victory Game's Central America (CA).

Getting through Turn 1 will be enough achievement for a late afternoon:
Central America is - by far - the most complex game I've started working on.
VG's Viet Nam may be even more complex, but I haven't punched it out and started
reading the rules yet. However, since CA allows simulating a full-on
WWIII situation, CA may indeed go beyond Vietnam in complexity.

## Bloody March scenario details

"Bloody March" is a simple scenario, with 15 total counter on the map, 2
of which are entrenchments and one of which is a CIA helicopter, leaving
12 ground units.

### Resources

Each faction in this scenario gets the following resources:

* FDN:
    * 4 Insurgency command points
    * 0 Reorganization points
    * 0 Supply depots

* FSLN:
    * 2 Insurgency command points
    * 0 Reorganization points
    * 0 Supply depots

 Zero reorganization and supply depots simplifies the scenario, allowing
 the focus to be on the insurgency operations.


### Victory conditions

Eliminate as many units as possible and occupy the
village of Las Vegas. The point breakdown:

* 4 points for occupying the village of Las Vegas
* 1 point for each enemy ground unit eliminated

Let's play.

## Abort! Abort! Abort!

My original intention was to play out just one turn using all the rules
in every phase for the turn. After some detailed perusal of the rules
for each phase, this proved a bigger task than warranted.  It's not
helping that it's Saturday afternoon, and I'm coming down from my weekly
caffiene binge. Body feels achy and dull, mind full of cotton.

Instead, let's skip all the rules except "move," and
"shoot," and play through all five turns.

First question: who has the first move? Inferring from the Phases
explanation, the Communist player always moves first.

Ok, that went pretty fast, there are only 15 counters on the board after
all, and two of those are entrenchments. Upshot: FDN crushed FSLN by
remaining in control of the Las Vegas village, and destroying some of
the FSLN ground units. It felt unbalanced, and I'm not sure exactly why.

Now that it's a week later, June 28, 2014, let's give Bloody March
another try.

## Turn 1

Back to business. I don't see any way around going through each phase in
gruesome detail. That's the best I've found to learn for myself, even if
it is the most boring.

### FSLN phases

Scenario 1 uses standard rules, all the intervention rules phases are
ignored.

* Supply: all FSLN units in supply, by definition all units are
  considered to be in supply on the first game turn unless the scenario
  dictates otherwise. (In the this scenario, the Honduran 4th regiment
  at Mandasta is out of supply until the start of Game Turn 4).
  Since there are no Supply Depots available, Communist supply phase is
  over.

* Ground unit reorganization: no reorg points, skip.

* Regular Ground Unit Movement: FSLN moves to encircle fortified
  position. Note that this is only the regular forces, insurgents
  can move on this phase as regular units, or the next phase as
  insurgent units. Details:
    * NI 50-02 X moves from 2311 to 2310 Las Trojes. This is within the
    ZOC of the FDN forces on 2410 (Las Vegas), so it requires the entire
    movement allowance (normally 4).
    * NI Lopz X moves from 2511 to 2510, again, a single hex due to FDN
    ZOC centered on 2410. This concludes FSLN regular movement.


* Insurgency Movement: as it turns out, I could have just moved the
  current insurgents during regular movement phase, as I don't need to
  leverage the "insurgent reserve." But since I didn't move them during
  regular movement, I'll move them now:
    * NI Pom II: from 2511 to 2510. I could move further as insurgents
      aren't bound by ZOCs, but that's where I want it anyway.
      Insurgency Reserve status marked. Note that the insurgent unit
      doesn't have to pay normal movement costs.
    * NI Uman II: from 2411 to 2310, leveraging the ability to move
      through the Allied ZOC with impunity. Insurgency Reserve status
      marked.


* Insurgency Placement: I think this is a good idea, because FSLN have
  only 2 insurgency points against FDN 4, and needs to get as much combat
  as fast as possible:
    * First attempt is to emplace regiment of MRH (an attractive yellow
      colored counter). Costs 1 insurgency point to make the attempt.
      Die roll 4, +1 for placing in home country, success for forest
      placement at hex 2411.
    * Since insurgent units are considered support units for stacking
      purposes, let's try to place another one at 2411: Die roll 5,
      success and an MRP unit enters the game.

  Neither of these units can move this turn, but they can fight.


* *Allied Aerial Counterinsurgency*: The successful placements are bad
   for the Allies. Unfortunately, 3 Bombardment points are necessary to
   undertake an Aerial Counterinsurgency, so the CIA helicopter stays
   home (in Silca).

* First Insurgency Disbandment: will keep insurgents this turn for
   fighting.

* Air Mission: no air assets for FSLN in this scenario.

* Ground Combat: FSLN attacks FDN in fortified postion 2410:
    * Attacking:
      * (2) Lopz from 2510
      * (2) 50 02 from 2310
      * (2) Veng from 2411
      * (1) Uman 2310
      * (1) Pom from 2510
      * 8 total attack

    * Defending FDN from entrenchment:
      * (2) Leg
      * (2) Cim
      * 4 total defend

      Odds 8:4, 2:1, roll 3, -2 DRM defender advantage for fortification,
      +1 DRM for attacking insurgent, result 2 yeilds attacker step loss
      with no retreat. That's actually not bad. *Veng* takes the step loss.

    Note that I'm assuming that the entrenchment forces combined defense
    as a stack. If this is not the case, a better attack would be 4:1,
    which would give a 2/3 chance of defender step loss and retreat. In
    this case, that would be an elimination. Except! Defenders in a
    fortification or entrenchment can ignore retreats.

    Rules clarification: Each of these units may be attacked separately,
    but they both have to be attacked. That is, the rules specify that
    if a unit in a hex is attacked, all the units in that hex must be
    attacked, but each unit may be attacked independently.

    A better attack may have been to attempt to get a 3:1 on one unit
    and a 1:1 on another. This would have almost certainly resulted in
    an attacker step loss (perhaps more than one), but it would have a
    higher probability of a defender step loss as well.

* Reserve Movement: Since the FDN *Leg* and *Cim* units have only 1 AF,
  I'll move the NI *Uman* from 2310 and *Pom* from 2510 to 2409, which will be
  punishing on FDN supply next turn. Reserve markers removed.

* Second Insurgency Disbandment: keeping insurgents this turn.

* Helicopter Transport: FSLN has no helicopters in this scenario.
  Bummer.

* Return to Base: no helicopters.

* Reinforcement: No reinforcements.


### FDN phases

* Supply: Turn 1 all units considered in supply unless dictated
otherwise by the scenario.

* Ground unit reorganization: No reorganization points.

* Regular Ground Unit Movement: The FDN *Leg* and *Cim* regiments need
to stay put in Las Vegas, that's victory ground after all. This leaves
the Honduran unit:
    * HN *4* moves 2 hexes along road from 1811 to 1910.

* Insurgency Movement: the *Salz*, *Sjec* and *Seg* insurgent units:
    * The insurgents move from 2612 to 2511, reserve marker placed.

* Insurgency Placement: Definitely need some insurgents here. FDN has 4
  points to spend:

  * First attempt, emplace *FRDA* at 2511. Roll 1, +1 DRM for home country,
    unsuccessful. Down to 3 IP. Try again...
  * Second attempt, emplace *Qui* at 2511, roll 1, unsuccessful.  Again...
  * Third attempt: *MLN* at 2511, roll 1, no dice.
  * Fourth attempt: *Cond* at 2511, roll 6, success.

  Well, that surely sucked for the Allied forces, considering the +1
  provided about an 83% chance of success. Three 1s in row. Sheesh.

* *FSLN Aerial Counterinsurgency*: ain't got no wings, so there's no
  aerial counterinsurgency.

* First Insurgency Disbandment: not disbanding any insurgents this turn.

* Air Mission: FDN has CIA helicopter support. How shall these allows
  employ this asset? Three options for this bird:
    1. Air to ground combat, seems to be covered by the Bombardment
       rules.
    2. Close air support, requires ground combat on same target.
    3. Transport.

  In this case, close air support of ground combat is warranted. Since
  there is no other air asset, a +1 Close Air Support marker is placed
  on *Lopz* at 2510, as this is the unit coming under Allied attack.

* Ground Combat, one attack, as follows:
  * On the attack:
    * (1) *SJec* from 2610
    * (1) *Salz* from 2610
    * (1) *Cond* from 2511
    * (1) *Cim* from 2410
    * (1) *Leg* from 2410
    * (1) CIA helicopter
    * 6 Total

  * Defending:
    * (3) *Lopz* at 2510

  Odds 6:3 yeild 2:1, defender is leg unit in forested terrain, roll 2,
  +1 for Close Air Support, +1 for insurgent unit attacking, one column
  shift right for attack helicopter, from CRT value 4 yeilds `-/1,R`
  defender step loss and retreat to 2408. Not bad, *Lopz* is a powerful unit.

  Attacker chooses not to pursue, as the leg units would be giving up a
  lot of defensive strength in the entrenched hex, and insurgency
  reserve move can occupy that area anyway.

* Reserve Movement:
  * *SJec* and *Seg* from 2610 to 2510
  * *Salz* from 2610 to 2511

* Second Insurgency Disbandment: Keeping the single unit activated.

* Helicopter Transport: mission already flown in CAS.

* Return to Base: helicopter back to Silca.

* Reinforcement: no reinforcements in this scenario.


Ok, that's it for Turn 1, and we're talking hours of work. Here's a
snapshot, blurry from mobile phone but still useful:

{:.center}
![Bloody March end of Turn
1](/images/bloody_march_turn_1_cropped_resized.jpg)


## Turn 2

[Stay tuned.]

## Turn 3

[Stay tuned.]

## Turn 4

[Stay tuned.]

## Turn 5

[Stay tuned.]

## Some thoughts on the game


This first play through has been quite a challenge. This is definitely
the most complex game I've played. In terms of absolute complexity, my
hunch is that it's near the top of a middle tier complexity, perhaps a
6, or the bottom of top tier of complexity, maybe 7 out of 10. Most of
the complexity is associated with the following:

* Long phase sequence on each turn, 16 phases for the standard game, 19
for the intervention game.

* Large variety of combat types, including ground to ground with armor
and infantry, air to ground, ground to air, close air support, air to
air, probably more with the intervention game and naval and marine
forces coming into play.

* The insurgency rules add an unusual dimension to the game, almost like
having a second game running underneath the main game. The movement,
combat advantages and ephemeral nature of the insurgent forces requires
a fair bit of thought for effectively employing these forces.

While the above adds a fair bit of complexity, it turns out the that
record tracks manage what could have been a bookkeeping blowout. Other
than perhaps figuring odds, there is no need (so far) in the standard
game to break out the Mark I lead pencil. That in itself feels like
quite an acheivement to me.

The rule book is one of the best I've seen. While it's thick-ish (~60
pages for the standard game, 40 more for the intervention game), the
rules are remarkably clear. So much so that the few rules which are
vague or ambiguous really stand out. When the ambiguity is easily
noticed, it's much easier to infer intent, or at least provide a
reasonable house rule in lieue of a ruling.


### No dispersal

One of the odd things about the game is that it feels smaller scale than
it is. That is, it feels company sized, but it's not, it's brigade and
regiment sized. At a certain scale, step losses probably make more sense
than dispersals, especially with the reorganization mechanism for
rebuilding units.


### Closing observations

Some people are bothered that one of the basic premises of the game is
Sandinistas acting as Soviet proxies.

I can definitely understand why this is bothersome to many people, and
to some extent, I find it a small bit bothersome myself.

However, this conflict with all its associated Iran-Contra drama made
headlines for the better part of at least a couple of years. Its one of
only a couple of topics I recall listening to on NPR pretty much daily.
(Another being the savings and loan scandal. I was framing houses in
Austin at the time.)

It didn't seem to be clear to NPR what, exactly, was going on down
there.

So hindsight, as they say, is 20-20.

Fast forward to now, playing what was a state-of-the-art game when it
was published, I don't have any problem suspending disbelief.

In fact, if CA is "fantasy," it's no more or no less fantasy than
Victory Games popular Fleet series, which clearly (and thankfully!)
model hypothetical conflicts.

