---
title: Boys of '67
date: 2014-11-08 06:39 PST
tags: fire-and-movement, descision-games, snoopys-nose, vietnam
---

Al S and I are going to play through the Snoopy's Nose scenario in the
Vietnam Battles issue of Modern War. This game uses the "Fire and
Movement" system common to several other games in the Decision Games
portfolio.

## Setting it up


{:.center}
![Boys of '67 set up](/images/snoopys/boys_of_67_setup.jpg)


## Turn 1

US moves to surround VC and attack:

{:.center}
![Combat Turn 1 US attacks](/images/snoopys/boys67/turn_1_us_attacks.jpg)

Combat, US attacks 514/1:

US total: 16
VC total: 10

Delta +6, roll 4, no effect. (This was a blunder, I read from the +5
column. The result should have been an exchange.)

The VC moves to escape:

{:.center}
![VC move](/images/snoopys/boys67/turn_1_vc_move.jpg)

Fire support for VC attack shown above.

The VC have 3 options for attacking here:

1. Both 514/1 and 514/2 attack Cav 5/3, with best delta of +2 after fire
support factored in and countered.

2. Either 514/1 or 514/2 attack Cav 5/3, best delta in this case is -1,
   which is almost certain elimination as there is no EZOC-free retreat
   for VC.

3. Do nothing, which reduces risk of an attacker loss, but loses
   opportunity to inflict at least some damage.

VC choose Option 1.

Delta +2, roll 2, Ex(change), step loss for 514/2 and Cav 5/3.

## Turn 2

The idea here is to not let the 514/1 get away while finishing off the
512/2. Cav 5/3 is out of the action for the moment.

Bombardment won't have any effect by itself due to counterbattery
augmenting the 514/2's defense strength.

This leaves 4/47 B and C companies to attack.

The delta is +5, roll 4, no effect, same as last.

{:.center}
![VC move](/images/snoopys/boys67/us_turn_2.jpg)

Note: The monitor, for reasons unknown, did not fire, otherwise this
would have been an Exchange result in the +6 column. It pays to pay
attention.

The VC decide to keep running. No profit in this fight.

{:.center}
![VC move](/images/snoopys/boys67/vc_turn_2.jpg)

We're half done.


## Turn 3

The "game" is half over, and there are still VC on the map. The US needs
to get busy.

{:.center}
![VC move](/images/snoopys/boys67/us_turn_3.jpg)

Combat:

US needs +8 minimum for best results.

* Monitor: 1
* 3/47 A: 2
* 3/47 B: 2
* 4/47 B: 3
* 4/47 C: 3
* FS: 12
* Total: 23

VC defends with:

* 514/2: 4
* FS: 11
* Total: 15

Delta: +8, roll 2, D2, 514/2 eliminated, no retreat through EZOC.

514/1 continues moving east.

## Turn 4

US nearly surrounds 514/1.

Bombard to use up counterbattery, has no other effect. US fields 5 + 5
bombardment, 514/1 counters with 5 + 2. This removes the +5
counterbattery from the VC arsenal for this turn, providing 1 less delta
for defensive fire support.

Here's the situation with bombardment counters shown, and the VC in
position after Turn 3:

{:.center}
![VC move](/images/snoopys/boys67/us_turn_4.jpg)


Combat:

US attacks with:

* Monitor: 1
* 3/47 A: 2
* 3/47 B: 2
* 3/47 C: 2
* 4/47 B: 3
* 4/47 C: 3
* FS: 12
* Total: 25

VC defends with:

* 514/1: 5
* FS: 10
* Total: 14

Delta: +11 for US.

The odds are 50% retreat with D2 or D3 which would be a US win, or an
Ex(change), which would result in a draw.

Roll 5, Exchange, VC moves to 0820, and it's draw.

## AAR

Ok, that was interesting. Definitely a bit different from other combat
resolutions I've played. The results most closely resemble the low
combat factors and hard-to-kill results from Central America.

Not clear on the Bombardment system. Feels a bit contrived. But I don't
really care overmuch as long as the scenarios are mostly balanced in the
end.
