---
layout: pb
---

# Situation 5 Game 2

Feb. 8-9, 2014

Revisiting Situation 5 now that I have a better notion of what the Germans need
to do.

## Setup

Russians set up first. In this game, Russian artillery and infantry strength is
concentrated on the south end of Board 2. The north end has a heavy howitzer,
an ATG in Uschas, and the two SU-76s.

Germans decide to attempt to exploit the north end of the map, where the
Russian artillery is a little lighter.

This setup seems to favor the Germans, but we'll see how it goes. Favoring the
Germans was partly conscious, to see how well the German armor could exploit a
weakness in the Russian line.

### Rule variants

Germans allowed indirect fire for H & M guns at greater than half range.

## Turn 1

Germans pile on to the north end, will take direct fire from an SU-76 on SG
III-75 at 2:1, risking only dispersal. I think I found a terrain hole not well
covered by the Russians that the Germans can slip through.

I can already see that the 2 German PzKpfw IV in Uschas should have moved
forward. No need to engage that ATG.

Russian fire phase: ATG in Uschas whiffed it, got expected dispersal on the SG
III-75 at 2:1. This would have been a kill if I hadn't forgot to use indirect
fire from the 120 mm mortar on Hill 135.

Russians mount up to get in better position.

## Turn 2

As tempting as it is to hang aroung and fight, the Germans need to seriously
hustle through the German line.  And that they do, a weak Russian line lets the
Germans just swing around and through places the Russians can't reach.

That said, the German put some smackdown on a SU-76. Having the Wespes way out
really helps with that indirect fire.

Not much the Russians can do here except mount up and reposition to deny German
advance.

## Turn 3

Movement only round for the Germans, getting off the map as fast as possible.

Russians positioning, blocking with remaining SU-76, CAT on PzKpfw.


## Turn 4

Russians just lost the second SU-76. Germans continue to move. Germans have 12
pieces off waiting one more turn to get 3 more off. All the German armor and
one CP halftrack  is staying behind to attempt to reduce infantry.

Russians just carting troops around in an attempt to deny the Germans the
northern route back across the board.


## Turn 5

Germans moving armor around to get the infantry on the run. The last 3 pieces
intending to move off the board moved back help clear a lane for the returning
units.

Russians continue to move troops north.

## Turn 6

Pressuring Russian rifle companies. Trying to get some Wespe action. They are
very weak on attack, and not that effective in CAT when German armor is
stacked.

Russians are in a bind, having lost both tanks, and with German armor stacked high.

## Turn 7

German small armor repositioning, not much to do otherthan wait for the off
board pieces to come back on.

Russians rolled a 6 on a 1:1 CAT.  Bummer. That would have taken out 2 halftracks.

## Turn 8

Germans are back on the board, and have to move fast.

Russians whiffed another CAT, which was a blunder to even try, Russian infantry
should be moving to block instead of attacking.



## Turn 9

Germans, positioning.

Russian mortar recently emplaced in Uschas takes out a PzKpfw IV, followup
close assault does nothing.

## Turn 10

Germans trying to escape, having a rough time.

Russians manage to disperse critical unit on a CAT at 1:2, Germans concede.



## AAR

The Germans were only able to get 2 armored cars off the board. The other units
got bound up with Russian rifle companies in the close terrain on Board 2.
Lessons learned here include:

* sometimes better to risk certain dispersal or elimination by providing the
opposition with a dilemma of either certain attack exposes them elsewhere.

* The Germans have got to get off the board by the end of Turn 3, or there is
almost no way of winning. This is really hard if the Russians are
well-emplaced.

* Russians almost lost this one, without a lucky CAT in Turn 10, the Germans
might well have succeeded.

All in all, the key to PanzerBlitz is understanding the game revolves around
movement.

### Blunders

Russian turn 1 could have used indirect fire from 120 mm on south side of Hill
135, which would have been a kill.

Germans should have the CP halftracks trailing instead of off the board where
they can't be used to spot for the Wespe. Even taking out a couple of Russian
rifles could have tipped the game to the Germans.

