---
layout: pb
---

# Situation #5, Game 1


Situation #5 is an odd thing. The description states the Germans wander
onto a certain board, hang out for a few turns, then remove themselves
from the board. After some serious digging around on the web, it turns
out there isn't a lot of information about this scenario available.
Close reading of what is available provided some clarity for playing the
scenario.

What the Germans have to do is start on Board 3, cross Boards 1 & 2,
exit off the east edge of Board 2 en masse, stay off the board for 3
turns, re-enter Board 2 (en masse)  on the same hex as exited for each
unit, recross Boards 2 & 1, and exit the west edge of Board 3 by Turn
12.

That could be a tall order.

However, the Germans don't have to attempt all units; only the units
making the crossings count for victory conditions

This a good situation for introducing massive firepower to the combat
mix. It also looks like an archetypal "panzerbush" scenario.

I've had this situation laid out on a table for a week wondering what to
do with it. Having it staring me in the face for days has induced at
least one minor epiphany: this scenario will require several phases, and
tactics for each phase may differ.



## Setting up.

The Situation description is a bit vague about where the Germans are to
set up Board 3 and when, exactly, they need to move on to Board 1.
Acordingly, since it's a sprint across the boards, the Germans set up
right along the east edge of Board 3, intending to sprint for cover on
their first move.

The Russians, not knowing anything better to do, spread their guns
around Board 2 in a somewhat haphazard fashion, albeit covering main
road through the hills with short range ATG (7-A-3), with the long
range, heavy H and M guns in flanking positions.

This first game will surely expose problems in the setup for both sides.


## Turn 1

As noted above, the Germans spread out in a front right along the
eastern edge of Board 3. Now that it's their turn to move, this feels a
bit inconvenient. Might have been nice to start the Germans in some
covered positions. After some examination, it looks like the easiest
route for the Germans is to punch through the south end of the map, over
the hill east of Adski.

Except for the small detail of not having positioned many units down
there.

In the end, to get the game going, the Germans just moved into covered
positions on Board 3.


The Russians don't have a lot to do yet, but were able to disperse some
halftrack-mounted infantry.


## Turn 2

Germans moved into position to take out some Russian artillery. This
also left several of their units exposed to fire from big Russian
howitzers. The idea is that the burly big guns take the heat as range
factor reduces AF by one half.

Russians take a big shot a some German infantry spotting on an ATG in
the woods on Hill 135. At 3:1, roll 5, dispersed. Bummer. Second big
shot is 120 mm mortar firing downhill on halftrack, 24/2 to 4, 3:1, roll
5. Dang. However, that dispersed unit can be close assaulted as well,
   which turned out to be a whiff.

## Turn 3

Germans can now bring some firepower, and remove two pesky guns.

So it's Turn 3 and I can see that the Germans really don't need to mess
around, they really need to get a move on.

Russian artillery found an exposed infantry platoon, roll 1, no more
infantry platoon. Try again with the other 120 mm: dispersed.

Send a tank to chase the half track carrying rifle platoon.

Move the wagons, mount up a rifle company on a truck, and close
assault...dispersed halftrack which was used for spotting...that's a
win! Next, take on two German halftracks...roll 6 at 1:2, nothing.


## Turn 4

Time for the Germans to make tracks, they're wastning time. No fire this
turn for Germans, all move. Now have several units on Board 3.

Russians doing well with close assault, dispersed a fair number of
units.

This game is starting to get interesting.

## Turn 5

More movement for Germans, now taking positions to block fire and
movement.

Russians getting some good rolls, dispersing German armor. Looks like
they risk losing north end of Hill 135.

Once again, forgot to fire the big 120 mm mortar.

## Turn 6

Germans trapped northeast of Hill 135 can't fight worth crap. However,
they will get 7 pieces off the board next turn.

That 120 mm mortar? Whiffed a 4:1 on a stack of tracks in the forest,
rolleda 6.  Infantry, as usual, puts the dispersal hurt on German armor.

## Turn 7

7 German units off Board 2, can't come back on until Turn 10 or 11.

Russian 120 mm rolls another 6.  At 4:1. Against a stack in a forest.
Cripes. And the SU-76 whiffs one as well.

At this point, I want to just play it out.

## Turn 8

German are trapped northeast of Hill 135.

Russian 120 mm finally took out halftrack stack with command posts.
Dispersed one of the Wespes, and has it blocked in now, pretty much all
over for that Wespe. Not looking good for the Huns overall.


## Turn 9

No fire for the Germans this turn, just movement. They are in a lot of
trouble on Hill 135. The Russians are going to light them up.

Russians took down the Wespe, dispersed the SG III-75. Almost surely a
kill next turn.


## Turn 10

German units back on the map, working their way to Board 3. Another
Russian 120 mm is gone, at the expense of a tank. The engineer unit
takes a crack at close assaulting a rifle company at 1:2...rolls 1,
score! This is like the second rifle company eliminated, ever.

Russians finally eliminate that last tank at Hill 135, now mounting up
to slow down the German retrograde.

## Turn 11

Only the armored cars are going to make the exit by end of Turn 12, so
the Germans concede at this point. It was probably a foregone conclusion
taking 7 turns to get units off the east side of Board 2, all the units
need to be off by the conclusion of Turn 5.


## AAR

Two big takeaways from this situation. First, finding a route through
difficult terrain is challenging, and it bears thinking about the route
before positioning. Second, it's worth thinking about how to compose
combined arms teams, that that each team can be tasked with a specific
objective and operate independently.

There was a fair bit of combat in this game, which was good for the
Russians and bad for the Germans. Once the Germans were trapped, it was
slaughterhouse.

This first game was an eye-opener as to the effectiveness of the huge
SPA guns the Germans fielded. Namely, they don't count for much unless
they're employed appropriately.

### Winning strategy

Among other contingencies, the Germans should probably plan for dealing
with mine and blockade impediments in advance, as factors affecting
movement across the board.


The Russians have some choices to make: should they allow the Germans to
penetrate through going forward and mass their fire as the Germans move
back? Or should they attempt to slow the Germans down on the German push
east? The choice of strategy influences initial Russian positioning. A
related question is "When should the Russians expend the SU-76s?"


### Rebalancing

Short answer: Remove one or two rifle companies, one or two artillery
batteries and a couple of wagons or trucks from the Russian OOB.
Frankly, the Russians didn't need to do much more than position rifle
companies to deny ground to the Germans, which would bog down into
ineffective direct fire on the Russians, and go-for-broke close assaults
on the Germans. Also, consider removing one or more blocks or mines from
Russian OOB.

Conversely, to the German OOB, add 2-3 infantry platoons, or 1-2
engineer units to help with removing mines and getting close assault
benefits.

The easiest way to rebalance is probably adjust the victory conditions:

* Require Germans to leave play for 1 or 2 turns instead of 3.
* Have the victory condition be finding cover on Board 3 instead of
  exiting.
* Extend the game a couple more turns, from 12 to say, 15 turns. This
  would not necessarily make it "easier" for the Germans to win, but it
  might make it possible.

### Blunders

For some reason, I thought the Wespe's movement factor was 5, and was
moving them accordingly. Dumb.

Any scenario with Wespes (or other H class units) and command posts
needs to leverage indirect fire.

The Russians had their own problem, with a 120 mm battery evidently just
kicking back and watching the action. Because that unit missed several
turns of fire, then rolled sucessive sixes on 4:1 where the target was
in the woods (+1 on die for forest defense, at 4:1, CRT 7 is no effect).

Remember that close assaulting a dispersed unit adds another -1 to the
die roll.

When a unit is defending on a slope,  attack factors of adjacent units
are halved only when there is a solid brown line separating the hexes.

