---
title: Objective Kiev
date: 2014-07-02 15:21 PDT
tags:
---

One of the cool things about magazine games is small size, which usually
means fast setup and always means portability. Objective Kiev and Battle
for Moscow can be bagged together in a slim, plastic folio for
protection. The resulting package looks vaguely official, something that
might carry a boring lease contract, or the collected gas bills for the
year, instead of something plastered with panzers and sure to attract
unwanted attention if not outright ridicule.

Solo play through.

Setup is about 30 minutes, this is the second time. With a little
practice, should be 5-10 minute set up in the future.

{:.center}
<img title="Objective Kiev Setup" src="/images/objective_kiev_setup.jpg" width="600px" />

Time to start rolling dice.

## Turn 1

This is where I learn the rules, and why things are the way they are.

For example, the initial setup dictates that Russian armies must not be
placed adjacent to each other. This results in armies (infantry)
alternating with corps (mechanized). One reason this makes sense is game
play, setting up two mechanized next to each other is inviting a fast
German punch through the line.

The Germans more or less punch a hole, but don't advance as far as they
could.

The Russians beat a fast retreat and will attempt to defend the cities
in the southwest part of the map: Iasi, Chernovtsy, and Stanislav. This
is going to be impossible, though, because they need to stay in supply.


## Turn 2

Hungarian and Slovakian corps enter as reinforcements. German infantry
is going to swing a bit east, then south, to try and cut off Russian
supply.

Germans attempting to squeeze the Russians out of supply such that DR
results in elimination.

Russians start to get replacements now.

I have to speed this up, I don't have all day.

## Several more turns transpire...

I've got to be someplace in 30 minutes, and the game is at the top of
Turn 6. It looks a lot like the Russians will win it, mainly by bogging
down the German at the south end of the map. The German would now be in
the position of moving long distances across the map for lower adds
attacks. The main problem for the Germans is the defense in depth
guarding Kirovograd. It looks like it would be really difficult to take
Kirovograd in two turns, given 5 steps of Russian replacements will come
in right there.

{:.center}
<img title="Objective Kiev Top of Turn 6" src="/images/objective_kiev_turn_6_start.jpg" width="600px" />

As you can see, the Germans would need to either swing around from the
north, or punch a hole through a developing line. The north has those
pesky forest hexes which slow down movement. Punching a hole would be
easy given three turns to ensure the hole is exploited.

In this game as in Battle for Moscow, once a defending unit is in a
position where retreat will cause step losses or outright elimination,
lower odds attacking becomes a viable. A unit doesn't need to be
destroyed if it's pinned without a way to move, and not strong enough to
attack.

Definitely looking forward to playing this one with an opponent.



